# Azure Data Factory Security Baseline

## 1. Network Security
### 1.1: Protect Azure resources within virtual networks
* Azure SSIS-IR
    * NSG Port 3389 open by default, lock it down.
* Self-Hosted IR
    * Ensure that your virtual network subnet deployment has an NSG configured to allow only administrative access.
* Where Private Link is available, use private endpoints to secure any resources being linked to your Azure Data Factory pipeline, such as Azure SQL Server.

### 1.2: Monitor and log the configuration and traffic of virtual networks, subnets, and NICs
* Use Azure Security Center and remediate network protection recommendations.
* Enable network security group (NSG) flow logs for the NSG protecting your Integration Runtime deployment.
* Send logs into an Azure Storage Account for traffic auditing.
* Send NSG flow logs to a Log Analytics workspace.
* Use Traffic Analytics to provide insights.

### 1.3: Protect critical web applications
* N/A.This is intended for Azure Apps Service or compute resources hosting web applications.

### 1.4: Deny communications with known malicious IP addresses
* Enable DDoS Protection Standard on the virtual networks associated with your Integration Runtime deployment for protection from distributed denial-of-service attacks.
* Use Azure Security Center Integrated Threat Intelligence to deny communications with known malicious or unused Internet IP addresses.

### 1.5: Record network packets
* Enable network security group (NSG) flow logs for the NSG protecting your Integration Runtime deployment and send logs into an Azure Storage Account for traffic auditing.

### 1.6: Deploy network-based intrusion detection/intrusion prevention systems (IDS/IPS)
* Inspect outbound traffic from Azure-SSIS IR by routing traffic initiated from Azure-SSIS IR to on-premises firewall appliance via Azure ExpressRoute force tunneling or to a Network Virtual Appliance (NVA) that supports IDS/IPS capabilities.

### 1.7: Manage traffic to web applications
N/A

### 1.8: Minimize complexity and administrative overhead of network security rules
*  Use VNet service tags to define network access controls on network security group (NSG). Use service tags (e.g., DataFactoryManagement) in place of specific IP addresses when creating security rules.

### 1.9: Maintain standard security configurations for network devices
* Define and implement standard security configurations for network settings and network resources associated with ADF instances with Azure Policy.

### 1.10: Document traffic configuration rules
* Use tags for resources related to network security and traffic flow for ADF instances to provide metadata and logical organization.

### 1.11: Use automated tools to monitor network resource configurations and detect changes
* Use Azure Activity Log to monitor network resource configurations and detect changes for network resources related to ADF instances. 
* Create alerts within Azure Monitor that will trigger when changes to critical network resources take place.

## 2. Logging and Monitoring
### 2.1: Use approved time synchronization sources
* Microsoft maintains the time source used for Azure resources, such as Azure Data Factory for timestamps in the logs.

### 2.2: Configure central security log management
* Ingest logs via Azure Monitor to aggregate security data generated by ADF.
* Within Azure Monitor, query the Log Analytics workspace that is configured to receive ADF activity logs.
* Use Azure Storage Accounts for long-term/archival log storage.
* Use Event Hub for exporting data to other systems, if needed.
* Enable and on-board data to Azure Sentinel.
* Integrate ADF with Git to leverage source control benefits.

### 2.3: Enable audit logging for Azure resources
* Control plane audit logging: Enable Azure Activity Log diagnostic settings and send the logs to a Log Analytics workspace, Azure Event Hubs, or Azure Storage Account for archive.
* Use Azure Activity Log data to determine the "what, who, and when" for any write operations (PUT, POST, DELETE) performed at the control plane level.

### 2.4: Collect security logs from operating systems
* IF running your Integration Runtime in an Azure Virtual Machine (VM), use Azure Monitor to collect data from the virtual machine.

### 2.5: Configure security log storage retention
* Enable diagnostic settings for Azure Data Factory. 
* If choosing to store logs in a Log Analytics Workspace, set LAW retention period according to organization's compliance regulations. 
* Use Azure Storage Accounts for long-term/archival storage.

### 2.6: Monitor and review Logs
* Enable diagnostic settings for Azure Data Factory and send logs to a Log Analytics workspace.
* Use Log Analytics to analyze and monitor logs for anomalous behavior and regularly review results. 
* Ensure that diagnostic settings are enabled for any data stores related to Azure Data Factory deployments.

### 2.7: Enable alerts for anomalous activities
* Raise alerts on supported metrics in ADF by going to the Alerts & Metrics section in Azure Monitor.
* Configure diagnostic settings for Azure Data Factory and send logs to a Log Analytics workspace.
* Enable and on-board data to Azure Sentinel.

### 2.8: Centralize anti-malware logging
* IF running IR in an Azure VM, use Microsoft Antimalware. 
* Configure VMs to log events to an Azure Storage Account.
* Configure a LAW to ingest the events from storage accounts and create alerts where appropriate.

### 2.9: Enable DNS query logging
N/A. ADF does not process or produce DNS-related logs.

### 2.10: Enable command-line audit logging
* IF running IR in an Azure VM, enable command-line audit logging. 
* ASC provides Security Event log monitoring for Azure VMs. 
* ASC provisions the Microsoft Monitoring Agent (MMA) on all supported Azure VMs
* MMA agent enables the process creation event 4688 and the CommandLine field inside event 4688.
* New processes created on the VM are recorded by EventLog and monitored by Security Center’s detection services.

## 3. Identity and Access control
### 3.1: Maintain an inventory of administrative accounts
* Ensure to track and reconcile user access on a regular basis. To create Data Factory instances, the user account used to sign in to Azure must be a member of the contributor or owner role, or an administrator of the Azure subscription.
* Use the Azure AD PowerShell module to perform ad hoc queries to discover accounts that are members of administrative groups that have administrative access to the control plane of ADF instances.
* If running Self-Hosted IR, VM running Self-Hosted IR may have local accounts as well. Both local and domain accounts should be reviewed and managed, normally with a minimum footprint.
* Use PIM Just-in-Time VM access to reduce the availability of administrative permissions

### 3.2: Change default passwords where applicable
* N/A

### 3.3: Use dedicated administrative accounts
* Create standard operating procedures around the use of dedicated administrative accounts for access to the Azure control plane (Azure portal) as well as the ADF console. 
* Use ASC Identity and Access Management to monitor the number of administrative accounts within Azure AD.

### 3.4: Use single sign-on (SSO) with Azure Active Directory
* Use an Azure app registration (service principal) to retrieve a token that the application or function can use to access and interact with Recovery Services vaults.

### 3.5: Use multi-factor authentication for all Azure Active Directory based access
* Enable AAD Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) and follow ASC Identity and Access Management recommendations.

### 3.6: Use dedicated machines (Privileged Access Workstations) for all administrative tasks
* Use privileged access workstations (PAW) with Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) configured to log into and configure Azure resources.

### 3.7: Log and alert on suspicious activities from administrative accounts
* Use AAD security reports for generation of logs and alerts when suspicious or unsafe activity occurs in the environment. Use ASC to monitor identity and access activity.
* If running Self-Hosted IR, onboard VM to Azure Sentinel.

### 3.8: Manage Azure resources from only approved locations
* Use Conditional Access Named Locations to allow access from only specific logical groupings of IP address ranges or countries/regions.
* Ensure that ADF Self-Hosted IRs are part of Conditional Access named locations.

### 3.9: Use Azure Active Directory
* Ensure that ADF is associated with a managed identity for Azure resources that represents the specific data factory. 
* Use managed identity for Azure SQL Database authentication. 
* If running Self-Hosted IR, onboard VM to Azure Sentinel.

### 3.10: Regularly review and reconcile user access
* Use Azure Identity Access Reviews to efficiently manage group memberships, access to enterprise applications, and role assignments.

### 3.11: Monitor attempts to access deactivated credentials
* Azure Active Directory (AD) sign-in activity, audit and risk event log sources allows to integrate with any SIEM/Monitoring tool. 
* Streamline this process by creating diagnostic settings for Azure AD user accounts and sending the audit logs and sign-in logs to a Log Analytics workspace. 
* Configure desired log alerts within Log Analytics.
* If running Self-Hosted IR, onboard VM to Azure Sentinel.

### 3.12: Alert on account login behavior deviation
* Use Azure Active Directory (AD) as the central authentication and authorization system for ADF resources, such Azure SQL Database or Azure Virtual Machines. 
* For account login behavior deviation on the control plane (the Azure portal), use Azure AD Identity Protection and risk detection features to configure automated responses to detected suspicious actions related to user identities. 
* Ingest data into Azure Sentinel for further investigation.

### 3.13: Provide Microsoft with access to relevant customer data during support scenarios
* In support scenarios where Microsoft needs to access customer data, Azure Customer Lockbox provides an interface for customers to review and approve or reject customer data access requests. 
* While Azure Lockbox is not available for ADF itself, Azure Lockbox does support Azure SQL Database and Azure Virtual Machines.

## 4. Data Protection
### 4.1: Maintain an inventory of sensitive Information
* Use the Azure SQL Database data discovery and classification feature to tag sensitive information.

### 4.2: Isolate systems storing or processing sensitive information
* Implement separate subscriptions and/or management groups for development, test, and production. 
* Integration Runtimes should be separated by virtual network (VNet)/subnet and tagged appropriately.

### 4.3 Monitor and block unauthorized transfer of sensitive information
* For data sources (such as Azure SQL Database) storing or processing sensitive information for your Azure Data Factory deployment, mark the related resources as sensitive using tags.

### 4.4 Encrypt all sensitive information in transit
* When authoring a pipeline by using JSON, add the encryption property and set it to true in the connection string. 
* For Azure Storage, use HTTPS in the connection string.

### 4.5 Use an active discovery tool to identify sensitive data
 * If using ADF to copy and transform your Azure SQL Database instances, use the Azure SQL Database data discovery and classification feature.

 ### 4.6 Use Azure RBAC to control access to resources
 * Use Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC) to control access to the Azure Data Factory control plane (the Azure portal).

 ### 4.7 Use host-based data loss prevention to enforce access control
 * Data identification, classification, and loss prevention features are not yet available for Azure Storage or compute resources. Implement third-party solution if required for compliance purposes.

 ### 4.8 Encrypt sensitive information at rest
* Enable the data encryption mechanism for any data stores related to your Azure Data Factory deployments.

### 4.9 Log and alert on changes to critical Azure resources
* Use Azure Monitor with the Azure Activity Log to create alerts for when changes take place to Azure Data Factory and related resources.

## 5. Vulnerability management

### 5.1 Run automated vulnerability scanning tools
* Enable Advanced Data Security for Azure SQL Database and follow recommendations from Azure Security Center on performing vulnerability assessments on your Azure SQL Servers.

* IF running IR in Azure VM, follow recommendations from Azure Security Center on performing vulnerability assessments on VMs.

### 5.2 Deploy automated operating system patch management solution
* If running  Integration Runtime in an Azure Virtual Machine (VM), use the Azure Update Management solution to manage updates and patches for VMs.

### 5.3 Deploy automated patch management solution for third-party software titles
* IF running IR in Azure VM, you may use a third-party patch management solution.

### 5.4 Compare back-to-back vulnerability scans
* IF running IR in Azure VM, export scan results at consistent intervals and compare the results to verify that vulnerabilities have been remediated.

### 5.5 Use a risk-rating process to prioritize the remediation of discovered vulnerabilities
* IF running IR in Azure VM, use the native vulnerability scanner. The vulnerability scanner included with Azure Security Center is powered by Qualys.

## 6. Inventory and asset management

### 6.1: Use automated Asset Discovery solution
* Use Azure Resource Graph to query/discover all resources (such as compute, storage, network, ports, and protocols etc.) within subscription(s). 
* Ensure appropriate (read) permissions in tenant and enumerate all Azure subscriptions as well as resources within subscriptions.

### 6.2: Maintain asset metadata
* Apply tags to Azure resources giving metadata to logically organize them into a taxonomy.

### 6.3: Delete unauthorized Azure resources
* Use tagging, management groups, and separate subscriptions, where appropriate, to organize and track Azure resources. 
* Reconcile inventory on a regular basis and ensure unauthorized resources are deleted from the subscription in a timely manner.

### 6.4: Define and Maintain an inventory of approved Azure resources
* Define approved Azure resources and approved software for compute resources.

### 6.5: Monitor for unapproved Azure resources
*  Use Azure Policy to put restrictions on the type of resources that can be created in subscription(s).

### 6.6: Monitor for unapproved software applications within compute resources
* IF running IR in Azure VM, leverage Azure Virtual Machine Inventory to automate the collection of information about all software on Virtual Machines.

### 6.7: Remove unapproved Azure resources and software applications
* IF running IR in Azure VM, Azure Automation provides complete control during deployment, operations, and decommissioning of workloads and resources. 
* Change Tracking can be used to identify all software installed on Virtual Machines.

### 6.8: Use only approved applications
* IF running IR in Azure VM, use Azure Security Center Adaptive Application Controls to ensure that only authorized software executes and all unauthorized software is blocked from executing on VMs.

### 6.9: Use only approved Azure services
* Use Azure Policy to put restrictions on the type of resources that can be created in customer subscription(s) using the following built-in policy definitions: (Not) allowed resource types

### 6.10: Maintain an inventory of approved software titles
* IF running IR in Azure VM, adaptive application control from Azure Security Center can be used to help control which applications can run on Azure and non-Azure machines (Windows and Linux).

### 6.11: Limit users' ability to interact with Azure Resource Manager
* Configure Azure Conditional Access to limit users' ability to interact with Azure Resource Manager by configuring "Block access" for the "Microsoft Azure Management" App.

### 6.12: Limit users' ability to execute scripts within compute resources
* If running Runtime Integration in an Azure Virtual Machine, depending on the type of scripts, operating system-specific configurations or third-party resources can be used to limit users' ability to execute scripts within Azure compute resources. 
* Also Azure Security Center Adaptive Application Controls can be leveraged to ensure that only authorized software executes and all unauthorized software is blocked from executing on Azure Virtual Machines.

### 6.13: Physically or logically segregate high risk applications
* High risk applications deployed in your Azure environment may be isolated using virtual network, subnet, subscriptions, management groups etc. and sufficiently secured with either an Azure Firewall, Web Application Firewall (WAF) or network security group (NSG).

## 7. Secure configuration

### 7.1 Establish secure configurations for all Azure resources
* Define and implement standard security configurations for Azure Data Factory with Azure Policy. Use Azure Policy aliases in the "Microsoft.DataFactory" namespace to create custom policies to audit or enforce the configuration of your Azure Data Factory instances. 

### 7.2 Establish secure operating system configurations
* IF running IR in Azure VM, use Azure Security Center recommendation [Remediate Vulnerabilities in Security Configurations on your Virtual Machines] to maintain security configurations on all compute resources.

### 7.3 Maintain secure Azure resource configurations
* Use Azure Policy [deny] and [deploy if not exist] to enforce secure settings across Azure resources.

### 7.4 Maintain secure operating system configurations
* IF running IR in Azure VM, note that there are several options for maintaining a secure configuration for VMs for deployment: Azure Resource Manager templates, Custom Virtual hard disk (VHD)

### 7.5 Securely store configuration of Azure resources
* If using custom Azure Policy definitions, use Azure DevOps or Azure Repos to securely store and manage your code.

### 7.6 Securely store custom operating system images
* If using custom images, use Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC) to ensure only authorized users may access the images. 
* For container images, store them in Azure Container Registry and leverage Azure RBAC to ensure only authorized users may access the images.
* The Data Factory Contributor role can be used to create and manage data factories, as well as child resources within them.

### 7.7 Deploy configuration management tools for Azure resources
* Use built-in Azure Policy definitions as well as Azure Policy aliases in the "Microsoft.DataFactory" namespace to create custom policies to alert, audit, and enforce system configurations. 
* Additionally, develop a process and pipeline for managing policy exceptions.

### 7.8 Deploy configuration management tools for operating systems
* Aplies if your Integration Runtime is running in an Azure Virtual Machine. Azure Automation State Configuration is a configuration management service for Desired State Configuration (DSC) nodes in any cloud or on-premises datacenter.

### 7.9 Implement automated configuration monitoring for Azure resources
* Use built-in Azure Policy definitions as well as Azure Policy aliases in the "Microsoft.DataFactory" namespace to create custom policies to alert, audit, and enforce system configurations. 
* Use Azure Policy [audit], [deny], and [deploy if not exist] to automatically enforce configurations for Azure resources.

### 7.10 Implement automated configuration monitoring for operating systems
* Aplies if your Integration Runtime is running in an Azure Virtual Machine. Azure Automation State Configuration is a configuration management service for Desired State Configuration (DSC) nodes in any cloud or on-premises datacenter.

### 7.11 Manage Azure secrets securely
* Use Managed Service Identity in conjunction with Azure Key Vault to simplify and secure secret management for your cloud applications.
* Store credentials or secret values in an Azure Key Vault and use them during pipeline execution to pass to your activities. Ensure that soft-delete is enabled.

### 7.12 Manage identities securely and automatically
* When creating a data factory, a managed identity can be created along with factory creation. The managed identity is a managed application registered to Azure Active Directory, and represents this specific data factory.

### 7.13 Eliminate unintended credential exposure
* Implement Credential Scanner to identify credentials within code. Credential Scanner will also encourage moving discovered credentials to more secure locations such as Azure Key Vault.

## 8. Malware defense

### 8.1 Use centrally managed anti-malware software 
* IF running IR in Azure VM, Microsoft Antimalware for Azure Windows Virtual Machines can be used to continuously monitor and defend your resources.

### 8.2 Pre-scan files to be uploaded to non-compute Azure resources
* Microsoft Antimalware is enabled on the underlying host that supports Azure services (for example, Azure App Service), however it does not run on your content.
Pre-scan any files being uploaded to non-compute Azure resources, such as App Service, Data Lake Storage, Blob Storage, etc.

### 8.3 Ensure anti-malware software and signatures are updated
* When deployed, Microsoft Antimalware for Azure will automatically install the latest signature, platform, and engine updates by default. Follow recommendations in Azure Security Center: "Compute & Apps" to ensure all endpoints are up to date with the latest signatures.

## 9. Data recovery

### 9.1 Ensure regular automated back ups
* IF running IR in Azure VM, enable Azure Backup and configure the VM, as well as the desired frequency and retention period for automatic backups.

### 9.2 Perform complete system backups and backup any customer-managed keys
* IF running IR in Azure VM, enable Azure Backup and target Azure VMs, as well as the desired frequency and retention periods. Backup customer-managed keys within Azure Key Vault.

### 9.3 Validate all backups including customer-managed keys
* IF running IR in Azure VM, ensure the ability to periodically perform data restoration of content within Azure Backup. 
* If necessary, test restore content to an isolated VLAN. 
* Periodically test restoration of backed up customer-managed keys.

### 9.4 Ensure protection of backups and customer-managed keys
* IF running IR in Azure VM and you back that VM up with Azure Backup, your VM is encrypted at rest with Storage Service Encryption (SSE). Azure Backup can also back up Azure VMs that are encrypted by using Azure Disk Encryption. Azure Disk Encryption integrates with BitLocker encryption keys (BEKs), which are safeguarded in a key vault as secrets. Azure Disk Encryption also integrates with Azure Key Vault key encryption keys (KEKs). 
* Enable Soft-Delete in Key Vault to protect keys against accidental or malicious deletion.

## 10. Incident response

### 10.1 Create an incident response guide
* Build out an incident response guide for the organization. 
* Ensure that there are written incident response plans that define all roles of personnel as well as phases of incident handling/management from detection to post-incident review.

### 10.2 Create an incident scoring and prioritization procedure
* Security Center assigns a severity to each alert to help you prioritize which alerts should be investigated first. The severity is based on how confident Security Center is in the finding or the analytic used to issue the alert as well as the confidence level that there was malicious intent behind the activity that led to the alert.

### 10.3 Test security response procedures
* Conduct exercises to test systems' incident response capabilities on a regular cadence. 
* Identify weak points and gaps and revise plan as needed.

### 10.4 Provide security incident contact details and configure alert notifications for security incidents
* Security incident contact information will be used by Microsoft to contact you if the Microsoft Security Response Center (MSRC) discovers that the customer's data has been accessed by an unlawful or unauthorized party. Review incidents after the fact to ensure that issues are resolved.

### 10.5 Incorporate security alerts into your incident response system
* Export Azure Security Center alerts and recommendations using the Continuous Export feature. Continuous Export allows you to export alerts and recommendations either manually or in an ongoing, continuous fashion. 
* Connect Azure Security Center data connector in Azure Sentinel to stream the alerts.

### 10.6 Automate the response to security alerts
* Use the Workflow Automation feature in Azure Security Center to automatically trigger responses via "Logic Apps" on security alerts and recommendations.

